README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="Gamera_the_Invincible.png" alt="Gamera" width="400"/>
  <h1>Gamera Web Browser</h1>
  <p>
    <strong>To be a monster without being monsterous</strong>
  </p>
  <hr/>
</div>

Gamera is a web browser designed to work on Plan 9 from Bell Labs. This
repository contains the beginnings of an experimental implementation
written in the Plan 9 style. It is **not** a complete browser yet.

## Coding Conventions

Gamera follows the Plan 9 philosophy of composing small programs that
cooperate through simple interfaces. Keep global state to a minimum and
pass data explicitly between functions. Use the core Plan 9 libraries
(`libc`, `libdraw`, `libthread`) to remain portable between native Plan 9
and plan9port. Avoid adding heavy external dependencies.

## Building on Plan 9

Plan 9 uses the `mk` build tool. From a Plan 9 environment you can run:

```
mk all
```

This will compile the sources under `src/` using the Plan 9 toolchain.

For Linux or other Unix-like systems you can install plan9port and the
required build tools using `scripts/install_deps.sh` before running `mk`.
This script installs Plan9port and configures your PATH so the `mk` build tool is available.
It also installs `libssl-dev` so that HTTPS support can be built. If you are
on a native Plan 9 system, ensure the appropriate TLS library is installed
(for example the 9front TLS tools).
Note that the install script downloads packages from the network and may fail
if your environment lacks internet access.

## Project Layout

- `src/` – C source code.
- `doc/` – Design documentation and notes.
- `$HOME/.Gamera/` – history and bookmark storage. See
  [doc/storage.md](doc/storage.md) for details.

## Status

Gamera is still in an early stage, but a minimal program can fetch a
web page, strip basic HTML tags, render the text line by line, and
expose the page contents via a small 9P file system. Pass a URL on the
command line (or omit it to fetch `http://example.com/`).
See `doc/roadmap.md` for planned tasks.

## 9P Interface

When running, Gamera mounts a single 9P service at `/mnt/Gamera`.
The following files are available:

* `page.html` – raw HTML of the current page.
* `page.txt`  – plain text extracted from the page.
* `ctl`       – write a URL here to fetch and display a new page.

Example usage:

```sh
$ cat /mnt/Gamera/page.txt
$ echo 'http://example.net/' > /mnt/Gamera/ctl
```

## UI Controls

The current interface simply renders text in a window. Future versions
will provide interactive controls (address bar, clickable links) built on
top of the 9P interface.

## Testing

The test suite uses the Plan 9 `mk` build tool. Make sure `mk` is
available in your `PATH` before running the tests. If you are on a Unix
system without Plan 9 tools installed, run `scripts/install_deps.sh` to
install plan9port and set up the environment.

Local loopback networking must be available because the fetch_url_test starts a small HTTP server. Run tests in an environment with plan9port installed. Set `OFFLINE=1` when running `tests/run_tests.sh` to use a mock fetcher and avoid network access.

```sh
OFFLINE=1 tests/run_tests.sh
```

```sh
tests/run_tests.sh
```

Commit message:

docs: clarify features and add future plans

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="Gamera_the_Invincible.png" alt="Gamera" width="400"/>
  <h1>Gamera Web Browser</h1>
  <p>
    <strong>To be a monster without being monsterous</strong>
  </p>
  <hr/>
</div>

Gamera is a web browser designed to work on Plan 9 from Bell Labs. This
repository contains the beginnings of an experimental implementation
written in the Plan 9 style. It is **not** a complete browser yet.

## Coding Conventions

Gamera follows the Plan 9 philosophy of composing small programs that
cooperate through simple interfaces. Keep global state to a minimum and
pass data explicitly between functions. Use the core Plan 9 libraries
(`libc`, `libdraw`, `libthread`) to remain portable between native Plan 9
and plan9port. Avoid adding heavy external dependencies.

## Building on Plan 9

Plan 9 uses the `mk` build tool. From a Plan 9 environment you can run:

```
mk all
```

This will compile the sources under `src/` using the Plan 9 toolchain.

For Linux or other Unix-like systems you can install plan9port and the
required build tools using `scripts/install_deps.sh` before running `mk`.
This script installs Plan9port and configures your PATH so the `mk` build tool is available.
It also installs `libssl-dev` so that HTTPS support can be built. If you are
on a native Plan 9 system, ensure the appropriate TLS library is installed
(for example the 9front TLS tools).
Optional features are toggled at build time. Set `TLS=1` to enable
HTTPS fetching and `JS=1` to include the experimental JavaScript
interpreter:

```sh
TLS=1 JS=1 mk all
```
Note that the install script downloads packages from the network and may fail
if your environment lacks internet access.

## Project Layout

- `src/` – C source code.
- `doc/` – Design documentation and notes.
- `$HOME/.Gamera/` – history and bookmark storage. See
  [doc/storage.md](doc/storage.md) for details.

## Status

Gamera is still in an early stage, but a minimal program can fetch a
web page, strip basic HTML tags, render the text line by line, and
expose the page contents via a small 9P file system. Pass a URL on the
command line (or omit it to fetch `http://example.com/`).
Only a small subset of HTML is handled.  When built with `libhtml`
paragraphs, headings and links are displayed; otherwise tags are stripped
leaving plain text.
See `doc/roadmap.md` for planned tasks.

## 9P Interface

When running, Gamera mounts a single 9P service at `/mnt/Gamera`.
The following files are available:

* `page.html` – raw HTML of the current page.
* `page.txt`  – plain text extracted from the page.
* `ctl`       – write a URL here to fetch and display a new page.

Example usage:

```sh
$ cat /mnt/Gamera/page.txt
$ echo 'http://example.net/' > /mnt/Gamera/ctl
```

## UI Controls

The current interface simply renders text in a window. Future versions
will provide interactive controls (address bar, clickable links) built on
top of the 9P interface.

## Testing

The test suite uses the Plan 9 `mk` build tool. Make sure `mk` is
available in your `PATH` before running the tests. If you are on a Unix
system without Plan 9 tools installed, run `scripts/install_deps.sh` to
install plan9port and set up the environment.

Local loopback networking must be available because the fetch_url_test starts a small HTTP server. Run tests in an environment with plan9port installed. Set `OFFLINE=1` when running `tests/run_tests.sh` to use a mock fetcher and avoid network access.

```sh
OFFLINE=1 tests/run_tests.sh
```

```sh
tests/run_tests.sh
```
